- I encourage you to embrace your own cultural background in this class and to remember that western literature is not the pinnacle of human creativity. The idolization of western literature is an artifact of the western academic tradition that persists because of momentum rather than merit. Don’t get me wrong: the western canon can be great — it’s just not _greater_ than any other tradition of literature and storytelling. Your family, your culture, your people – whoever they may be and however you define them as **your people*_ – possess a vast collection of art, wisdom, and story (whether or not they ever wrote any of it down). The stories of culture are endless, and though the forms of creativity vary somewhat across cultures, the shapes of stories have a kind of unity. Everywhere in the world we can find oceans of stories, told in different ways but sharing the core themes of human experience. In this class, I encourage you to find stories that reflect you – your values, your character, your innermost nature – and especially to embrace stories that come from your own culture(s) – however you define it or them. All cultures have beautiful, magical, awesome, scary, profound stories.
	- Perhaps you’ve been told all your life that the most important stories come from the western canon – even if no one actually said that. But ask yourself: how many of the western stories do you know, as compared to the stories of your own culture and people? How do you feel about that balance? And if you’d like to change it, please do so. Your stories are yours to discover. No one else can tell you which stories are the greatest or most important _*for you*_.
	- The reading list has books from various cultures. But there are thousands of cultures in the world; so, unavoidably, most cultures are not on our reading list. If you want to read stories from your culture(s), please help me work with you to find them. Send me a note, and we’ll figure out how to discover the stories that will best feed your imagination and spirit.