- The relationship between feedback and evaluation is complicated and highly counter-intuitive. Everybody wants feedback, right? However, a good deal of educational research shows that receiving feedback assists only high-performing learners. In other words, most people don’t benefit from feedback until they are already skilled at something like writing. For everyone else, the process of developing a *growth orientation* tends to be more helpful. A positive growth orientation is when you feel positive and engaged with a learning process – no matter how poorly skilled you might be. This type of attitude increases motivation; and motivation, in turn, leads to increased skill. So, you may start to see here why I am more focused on helping you find pleasure and enthusiasm in this course than I am on testing and evaluation. It’s not the feedback that will help you; it’s the process of finding joy in the study of this subject. Let’s dive into this a bit.
  title:: On Feedback
- Most learners are not adept at identifying the limits of their knowledge and expertise. Indeed, in many social and intellectual domains, people are unaware of their incompetence, innocent of their ignorance. Where they lack skill or knowledge, they greatly overestimate their expertise and talent, thinking they are doing just fine when, in fact, they are doing quite poorly. So, if people lack the skills to produce excellent outcomes, they are also cursed with an inability to know when their outcomes (in this case, their *writing*) – or indeed anyone else’s outcomes – are skilled or not. They often cannot recognize their own problems or see the ways in which others show better skill. In other words: until you have some writing skill, it’s tough to recognize that you don’t have it.
- If poor performers had the skills needed to distinguish accuracy from error, or skill from non-skill, they would then possess the ability to avoid poor performance in the first place. They would no longer be poorly skilled. But that’s not what we tend to see. Instead, poorly skilled writers (or musicians, or mathematicians, or whatever) tend to show dramatic overconfidence on tasks about which they have received substantial critical feedback in the past. Poor performers do not learn from feedback even when the feedback specifically indicates how to improve! (This phenomenon has been exhaustively studied and is often known as the [Dunning-Kruger effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunning%E2%80%93Kruger_effect).)
- Wait, what? Let me say that again: *poor performers do not learn from feedback*. So, if you are a relatively unskilled writer, and I give you many suggestions about how to improve, this will not lead to you becoming a better writer. And it’s not because you’re being stubborn. This is just how learning works, how people are. We can’t help it. Research demonstrates that often the poorest performers show no recognition, despite clear and repeated feedback, that they are doing poorly. As a consequence, they typically provide overly optimistic predictions about how well they are doing.
- OK. So what do we do about this? Well, it turns out that metacognitive ability – the capacity to think more widely and deeply – helps to improve levels of skill in almost every area. We can cultivate greater skill just by encouraging self-insight and general learning. How do we approach general learning? By reading. That’s why you have a reading assignment (well, one of the reasons). And how do we further reinforce metacognition? By having a growth mindset.
- In this class I work hard to encourage you to develop (or deepen) a mindset that leads to greater excitement about learning and, by extension, greater self-insight. A raft of educational research shows that simply encouraging beliefs in the malleability of traits (in other words, a growth mindset that acknowledges *we can get smarter about any subject*) leads to a host of behaviors that contribute to more accurate perceptions of one’s abilities. And, in turn, this leads to more accurate self-assessment and improved levels of skill. Students who are taught that intelligence is malleable – that *joyful practice makes you smarter* – get more excited about learning, become more motivated, and achieve better grades. Thus, teaching individuals that intelligence is malleable leads to more accurate self-assessments, improvements in skill and knowledge, and (bonus!) greater self-insight – which is just good for us in a multitude of ways.
- So, in this class I will try to help you better identify your strengths and where you need to improve. But I won’t do that by giving you written feedback on your assignments. It doesn’t help (see above!). Instead, I will encourage you to engage with your own process of discovery, broad-based learning, self-assessment, insight – and, most of all, by helping you to make incremental gains in the quality and depth of the skill that you bring to writing. Your intelligence is *malleable*: it can move across domains, apply things from one field to another, integrate ideas and practices across the spectrum of your experience. We don’t expand this malleability by doubling down on grammar, spelling, and the mechanics of writing. No, we expand malleability by being open to new creative experiences (like this class), picking up new and broad skills (in our reading), and deepening our self-insight by applying it to a new kind of (creative) writing.