- A perspective from your instructor
	- For more than 35 years, [my career](https://rosslaird.com/) has been focused on working with vulnerable people. In my clinical practice I work with social service agencies to help them deal with the many issues involved in providing care for the most vulnerable residents of our society: homeless, addicted, traumatized, impoverished people of all kinds. I have worked with hundreds of local social service agencies (as well as dozens more across Canada and internationally), and I am the clinical supervisor for BC’s largest provincially-funded program focused on addictions and homelessness.
	- In this clinical work that I do, it’s impossible not to notice how much overlap there is between vulnerable populations and racism. I have directly witnessed the ongoing abuse, poverty, and death of vulnerable members of our communities. I have devoted my career to helping our society grapple with the many ways in which we perpetuate – intentionally or otherwise – the persistent vulnerability faced by marginalized and racialized groups. In post-secondary education – the context for our courses and our experiences on these pages – many of the traditions of academia reflect values that are out of step with how we think about the development and care of vulnerable people today. This mismatch between legacy values and contemporary perspectives can (and often does) perpetuate harm in a host of ways — some obvious, others more subtle. This is one of the main reasons why so many of our course pages directly challenge academic traditions. I’m not just trying to be cheeky: changing education is _essential_ if we are to move society toward greater health, justice, compassion, and care.
	- Educators are the gatekeepers and tradition-holders of academic culture. The traditions that perpetuate distress for vulnerable groups; the practices that exclude and deride people; the unexamined and implicit norms that often damage learners: all of these embody a long shadow for which educators are accountable. If education is, ideally, a process of illumination and discovery — of coming out of the shadow of unknowing and into greater awareness — then we must follow that process to where it leads: growth and change.